this is what sir told us about the exam in messages after the last class,
*Exam Structure Pattern and Topics*
Dear Students,

I have just finished making the mid term exam for Introduction to Blockchain course. I am feeling generous and I am sharing the weightage of the parts included in the exam.

Conceptual/Short QA (20% spanning over 2 questions), Simulation/Numerical (68% spanning over 3 questions), and Objectives (12% spanning over 1 question). The final exam consists of a total of 6 questions spanning 9 pages.

The paper has to be solved entirely on the question paper and no answer sheets will be required, I am also sharing the type of questions included in the exam.

In one type of question(s), you will be asked to discuss certain concepts as to what they are and how they work. You will be asked about consequences of certain happenings. In another type of question you will be given sifficient information to simulate a certain technique. A type of question requires you to calculate certain values based on the given information and the reason about the output. In one last type of question you will be given a list of terms and you will have to fill a given partially filled table with those terms at appropriate positions.

As an additional aid for you to prepare for the exam, I am including a list of topics in this post. The exam comprises of these topics only: Merkle Tree and Merkle Proof, Bitcoin transaction signature construction and verification, Bitcoin UTXO unlocking, Proof-of-work and Mining (target hash and nonce), UTXO Database, Transaction Fee and Rate, Bitcoin Transaction Types (P2PKH, P2MS, P2SH, P2WPKH, P2WSH, and P2TR).

The order of these type of questions and topics is largely inspired by the actual order in which you will encounter these questions and topics if you were to attempt the final exam sequentially.

I believe the above description covers all the question types and topics included in the exam. I hope this helps you in preparation for the exam.

I wish all of you the best of luck.

Regards
Ahmed Akhtar
make sure to bring your scientific calculator on exam day
for now you can also practice using this PC simulator
the activation key is all 0000...

Scientific Calculator Allowed In Exam
In the exam you should be able to do all calculations similar to the ones you did in HW1 using a scientific calculator
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VZIaS4Qzks

This video shows the fool proof way to calculate mod using a scientific calculator that always works other methods sometimes work and sometimes do not work


and this is what sir told us about the mid during the last class,
ok so the exam topics sir told us in class were (im typing them from my lecture copy)
diff types of transactions
key and script locks detailed
inputs kia signatures kahan kia
script hash mein kia 
version x and legacy, what is the diff
script simulation
steps for simulation of steps
steps simulation se pehlay and doran
script legacy step
flowchart of signature kese kartay
traditional signature mechanism - what is the difference with current signature mechanism
traditional input output vs bitcoin input output what is the difference
HW1 encryption and decryption
simulation example
bitcoin poori transaction process karna
limbo game (difficult level of hash) har miner difficulty level compute karta hai so there will be a question on how they do it
keyword nonce
UTXO mein kia aata hai kab jaata hai
simulation ka long q 

this is what he told us like he was speaking so i rapidly wrote whatever he said so please try and make sense of it and give me a list of topics and explain each topic in a lot of detail and give questions and answers for each topic that could come

i am also attaching homework 1 and all lectures slides afre attached so im also attaching quizzes and their solutions ok. use everything and just prepare me for the exam

Homework 1 
CS-355 (Spring 2026) 
CSE-355  (Spring  2026) 
Total Marks: 100 
General Instructions 
HW 01 
Homework 1 
Deadline: Feb 22, 2026 at 11:55pm 
• There are a total of 10 questions and each question carries 10 marks. (some are easier 
than the others and this has been done on purpose) 
• This assignment must be completed and submitted individually. Group submissions 
are NOT allowed 
• Simply dividing questions among peers or sharing written solutions is strictly prohib- 
ited and defeats the purpose of the assignment 
• Every student is expected to develop a complete and independent understanding of 
all questions 
• You may use online resources, including Generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, 
strictly for learning and clarification purposes. H owever, c opying s olutions, 
generating answers without understanding them, or submitting AI-produced content 
verbatim is considered academic misconduct 
• If you have any confusion, please post your questions on the Whatsapp Group of the 
course or contact the TA or the Instructor directly 
Submission Instructions 
• All solutions must be typed and submitted in PDF format. Handwritten 
submissions will NOT be accepted under any circumstances. 
• Typesetting your solutions in LaTeX is strongly encouraged and preferred. 
However, you can also use MS Word or Google Docs, etc. 
• Submissions must be  made  on  LMS  before  the  stated  deadline.  Email submissions 
will NOT be accepted. The deadline will not be extended without imposing a penalty 
for late submission. 
• Each student must submit their own assignment individually. The first page must 
clearly include your full name and student ID. 
1 
Homework 1 
CS-355 (Spring 2026) 
Question 1 
Suppose Alice wants to send a confidential message to Bob. She does not want 
anyone else to see what she sent. Alice also wants Bob to be sure it really came from 
her. 
How can we meet all the requirements? Explain by specifying all the actions taken 
by both Alice and Bob. Feel free to simply draw a block diagram. 
Question 2  
Bob receives a message that claims to be signed by Alice. He tries to verify it using 
Alice’s public key, but the verification fails. 
a) What does this outcome mean? 
b) Based on this, what possible issues or attacks should Bob suspect? 
Question 3  
a) Alice comes up with her own digital signature scheme. She writes a message and 
encrypts that message using her Private key. She then sends this message and the 
encrypted message both to Bob. Can Bob be sure that this message came from Alice? 
b) Alice modifies this scheme. She writes a message and encrypts that with her private 
key (as in the previous part). She then hashes the encrypted message and sends this 
hash along with the original message to Bob. Can Bob be sure that this message is 
from Alice? 
Question 4 
In class we learnt that a symmetric key is often used for communication in-bulk i.e., 
when there is a lot of data that must be transferred. This is done because symmetric 
keys operate a lot faster than asymmetric keys. 
a) Assume that Alice and Bob share a secret, symmetric key. Devise a scheme with 
which Alice can send a plain-text message to Bob and ensure that Bob can verify the 
authenticity of this message. 
Assume that Alice and Bob must share a LOT of data and asymmetric keys are not viable. 
b) Consider a scenario in which Alice wishes to relay to Bob the message “Give me 
3.50$”. A malicious actor,  Kevin,  duplicates this message and sends it twice to Bob 
(this is called a replay attack). According to the scheme you devised in the previous 
part, what will the outcome be? Further, devise a scheme in which duplicated messages 
are rejected. 
Question 5 
In a Bitcoin blockchain, a transaction claims “Alice pays 0.3 BTC to Bob.” 
a) What checks must be performed on Alice’s digital signature before this transaction 
is considered valid? 
b) Could Alice later deny sending it? Why or why not? 
2 
Homework 1 
CS-355 (Spring 2026) 
Question 6 
Consider a blockchain with three blocks. Block 1 contains transactions and has a 
hash H1 = ABC123. Block 2 contains its own transactions and includes H1 in its data 
before being hashed to produce H2 = DEF456. Block 3 does the same, resulting in H3 
= GHI789. 
a) If a transaction in Block 1 is altered, explain why merely recalculating its hash to 
H1’ is insufficient to hide the tampering. 
b) What must an attacker do to make the altered chain appear valid to a node 
synchronizing from the latest block? Why does Proof-of-Work make this practically 
very difficult? 
Question 7  
Consider as simple encryption procedure using a public/private key pair. You have the 
public key as the integer p=7 and the “secret” private key as the integer s=3. 
The method to encrypt an integer m is: c = mp mod 33 
And the method to decrypt an encrypted integer is: m = cs mod 33 
Assume that the input characters have the following numerical values: 
a/A = 0, b/B = 1, c/C = 2, ..., z/Z = 25. 
a) Encrypt the word ‘SurpriseQuiz’ and write down the sequence of numbers. 
b) Decrypt the sequence “1 2 13 29 20 2 7 20 21 16 8 16 13 28”. Write down the 
characters and what you think of them. 
Now lets consider a hashing function h(x) = ⌊ex + 100⌋ mod 32 where x ∈ [0, 50]. 
As h(x) is defined only for one input, we will modify it to take in lists of numbers such 
as “31 23 4 2 13”. We define that h(31 23 4 2 13) will be h((31 + 23 + 4 + 2 + 13) mod 
50). The idea is that every number in the list makes a contribution. Suppose Alice has 
the public key p = 7 and private key s = 3. Data is sent in the form “m1m2m3...mn
 
sig” where the mi
 are numbers from the message and “sig” is the private key 
(encryption) of the hash of the message. Note that this is different from the previous 
parts. 
c) Suppose Alice wants to transmit the word “SaveMe”. What is the final message that 
Alice transmits? 
d) You receive a message “12 20 18 19 0 5 0 17 14 2 10 18 1 0 2 7 4 18 7 14 2 10 18 5”. 
It is known that the scheme in part (c) is used. Is this message from Alice?  Why or 
why not? If it is a message from Alice then write the message. 
Question 8 
a) What is the fundamental difference between Symmetric and Asymmetric (Public 
Key) cryptography? 
b) For the following goals, state whether symmetric or asymmetric cryptography is 
typically used. Also state your reasoning: - i) Encrypting a large file for storage. - ii) 
Proving your identity to a website. - iii) Establishing a secure connection to your bank’s 
server. 
3 
Homework 1 
CS-355 (Spring 2026) 
Question 9 
A simple hash function is defined as H(x) = (5x + 3) mod 16. 
a) Calculate the hash of the following numbers: H(7), H(23), H(39). 
b) What do you observe about the results for H(7) and H(23)? Explain why this 
happens, relating it to the properties of the modulo operation. 
c) Based on this, what is a major weakness of this hash function? 
Question 10 
We briefly talked about Proof-of-Stake (PoS) as an alternative to Proof-of-Work (PoW). 
a) In PoW, miners expend energy. What do validators in a PoS system “stake” or 
put at risk to participate in block creation? 
b) Read up on the advantages and criticisms of PoS systems, and mention one for each 
here.  
4  